date: 2011-03-15
published: true
tags: [data, programming]
title: Adding server operations, DBA to my bag of tricks
updated: 2011-03-15


<div>I've always been a programmer. Then I learned enough about shipping software products at Convex and Dazel, and then global collaboration at W3C. I have always respected the people who keep the servers running<span class="Apple-style-span" style="font-family: sans-serif; font-size: 13px; line-height: 19px;">—</span>the <a href="http://www.w3.org/blog/systeam/">W3C systems team</a> rocks!<span class="Apple-style-span" style="font-family: sans-serif; font-size: 13px; line-height: 19px;">—</span>and now I'm learning a bit of that stuff too.</div><div><a name='more'></a></div><div>I mostly taught myself to program as a teenager. Then I worked at Convex, developing software supercomputers. It was a mature engineering organization; a great place to learn about shipping software products. Then I helped set up the engineering organization at a startup company, Dazel. Between these jobs, I learned&nbsp;the difference between a program and a product: a program works for the one who wrote it, while a product works for users. For the same set of features, developing a product is about a hundred times as much work as developing a program.</div><div><br />
</div><div>My job at W3C struck a nice balance between research and development for a good long while. In my short stint at Science Commons, I wrote "writing software to support research" in a status update, and I have hung on to that since. That's pretty much what I do at KUMC.</div><div><br />
</div><div>We're building a data repository for clinical researchers. It has just a handful of users now, but we're gearing up for more. So it's time to think about server operations. I did a little bit of system administration at W3C... it was something of a tradition that each new hire on the technical staff played that role... but eventually we grew up and hired real system administrators. Since then I have managed to avoid responsibility for server operations.</div><div><br />
</div><div>The informatics group isn't big enough for that yet, so I spent a few days learning the state of the art in open source monitoring tools.&nbsp;<a href="http://informatics.kumc.edu/work/blog/2011/03/slug">Getting ahead of the ball with service monitoring</a> is a happy result.</div><div><br />
</div><div>It's certainly happier than the feedback I've been getting while trying to learn about Oracle administration. (Frank isn't the name this guy used, but he <i>was</i> very frank.)</div><div><br />
</div><div><div><div><danc><span class="Apple-tab-span" style="white-space: pre;"> </span>if I make a cold backup on AIX (big-endian) and I try to restore it on linux (little endian), am I more likely to win or lose?</danc></div><div><frank><span class="Apple-tab-span" style="white-space: pre;"> </span>lose</frank></div><div><frank><span class="Apple-tab-span" style="white-space: pre;"> </span>you need to use rman or [...]</frank></div><div><frank><span class="Apple-tab-span" style="white-space: pre;"> </span>but you guys really should hire a dba</frank></div><div><frank><span class="Apple-tab-span" style="white-space: pre;"> </span>you could afford oracle, and a server for aix, and now a new linux server</frank></div><div><frank><span class="Apple-tab-span" style="white-space: pre;"> </span>you can afford a dba for a few hours</frank></div><div><frank><span class="Apple-tab-span" style="white-space: pre;"> </span>Or else, you could totally screw stuff up, especially the configuration and tuning of the linux DB</frank></div></div></div><div>[...]</div><div><div><frank><span class="Apple-tab-span" style="white-space: pre;"> </span>most admins now are giant #$%@# idiots who dont know that sqlplus exists.&nbsp;</frank></div><div><frank><span class="Apple-tab-span" style="white-space: pre;"> </span>or they are "developers" &nbsp;which their company put them in charge of the database</frank></div><div><frank><span class="Apple-tab-span" style="white-space: pre;"> </span>and are giant clueless idiots</frank></div></div><div><br />
</div>